Hi my name is Justin Crisp and I started my journey as a software engineer in 2015.
I moved right out of high-school in Costa Mesa, CA to Cupertino, CA enrolling in De Anza for Computer Engineering. There I focused on my computer science classes, taking as many as I could in the legendary valley. It felt like hollowed ground, being the same school Steve Jobs would unveil new Apple products at, and often walk to. I excelled in computer-science, joining the school's Comp. Sci. club The Developers Guild, and getting an A in my Adv. C++ class. During this time I was also interning at RingCentral, a voice-to-ip provider in Belmont, CA.
	While at RingCentral serving as a product analyst intern I supported the product team by doing competitive analysis, learning more about the SaaS business. I was invited to stay the rest of the year working on projects like using a NLP model, Word2Vec, to do sentiment analysis on NPS scores of the RingCentral Glip product.
	After one of the VP's recommended I join the product team full-time I decided I should continue my computer science journey more heavily by going to 42 Silicon Valley in Fremont, CA. To join 42 I had to go through a 1-month bootcamp with 12-hour minimum logged days working on projects in C, with each week ending in an exam, testing C and Linux commands. 
	After joining the school, I continued to log a minimum of 120 hours a week in the lab, working on projects like recreating the 'ls' linux command, the 'printf' function, and c-standard library from scratch built with MakeFile's only using special functions such as 'malloc' and 'free'.
While at 42 I volunteered in the kitchen every week, co-founded the video game club, and joined the ambassador's program, serving as a volunteer at many tech conferences like StartupGrind and Samsung Unbox, among others. I also competed in a few hackathons while in the bay area, Owl Hacks at Foothill College, our team won 1st, Samsung SXR Hackathon, our team won 3rd, and Samsung Bixby Hackathon at 42 in Fremont, I won 1st. The Bixby hackathon landed me a job on the Bixby Developer Relations team where I helped launch the Bixby marketplace, an app-store for Voice Apps. On the Developer Relations team I was responsible for sourcing developers and businesses to join the program, and walk them through the program, with the ultimate goal of having them produce an app. This involved scheduling calls, finding developers, and during the calls helping them debug any issues they are facing with development using the Bixby Developer Studio. This usually involved debugging JavaScript and '.bxb' files (an xml like language). 
	My time at Samsung unfortunately ended in 2020 during the pandemic. After which I took time to work on personal projects focused on building software for content creators. In 2021 I joined Shotcall a startup that was building a point based reward program for fans of content creators. There I worked primarily on frontend development with React, some backend development with Java using Spring, and DevOps work using Python for Lambda functions.
I am very proud of the work we accomplished at Shotcall, we built many features from scratch; timeline, content-profiles, discord account linking, rewards shop, server-side watermarked content, auctions, messaging, and few others. Additionally I led development on creating a mobile application using Apache Cordova and Capacitor. Unfortunately we were not able to secure a final round of funding and thus my time at Shotcall came to an end.
	After Shotcall in my free time I worked on projects in Unreal Engine 5, and made content for YouTube sharing what I was working on. After which I joined Cubex as a software engineer working on their frontend React app, helped create new endpoints consumed by the client in C# using .NET, and worked on a microservice for discrepancy reporting. My main projects at Cubex was updating the frontend build process from Node V.12 to V.20 for automated deployments, fixing minor UI bugs, and creating microservices. At Cubex I learned more about Test Driven Development, C# design paradigms like creating Walking Skeletons by stubbing out endpoints for Unit Testing and Integration Testing, and deploying these services for Infrastructure as Code in Azure leveraging CI/CD tools like Azure Pipeline and Bicep files.
	Unfortunately I was laid off from Cubex in July of 2024 and now I spend my time focusing on learning new frontend frameworks like Astro, Deno 2.0, and creating projects using Llama large language models. Some of the projects I am working right now include my portfolio site created with React, FixedW/ a car diagnosis app created with React Native using Claude for AI prompting, and SwitchTape a web app for converting music playlists across platforms like Apple Music and Spotify, created with Astro, Preact, and Deno 2.0.
My goal as an engineer is to keep learning and working on more impressive projects that help make peoples lives easier. I hope to join a company that will challenge me to do my best work, and that encourages engineers to learn, adopt best practices, and support those around them as a community. 

